NAME
    Debian::Perl - CPAN Author's Debian Packaging Toolset

SYNOPSIS
    From the command line:

        > debian-perl build
        > debian-perl release

    From a Perl module directory:

        > Perl Makefile.PL
        > make debian
        > make release

DESCRIPTION
    Debian::Perl is a set of tools that encourages CPAN authors to become
    the Debian maintainers for their work, or to at least provide the
    necessary structure for downstream (Debian) maintainers. It tries to
    make prepping for Debian a very simple and discoverable process.

RATIONALE
    If you are a Perl CPAN module author, you probably know quite a bit
    about Perl, CPAN and modules. You probably know about Debian Linux.
    There's even a decent chance you've used it. However, there's only a
    very slim chance that you maintain Debian packages for your modules.

    Let's assume that this at least vaguely describes you. If someone told
    you that you could flip a switch, and then every time you released a
    module to CPAN, it went to Debian (perfectly packaged to their
    standards), you'd probably flip that switch.

    This module aspires to be that switch. It wants you to be a Debian
    Maintainer for free. You may end up becoming a full fledged Debian guru
    one day, but for now you just want to see your code available to a whole
    new world, without having to know the details. As long as this switch
    doesn't tell you otherwise, you know that you did the all right things.

    This module is just a helping hand that automates all the standard best
    practices for you. It bends over backwards to help you get that module
    to Debian without having to know any more than is expected of a busy
    Perl module author, like yourself.

    Specifically it uses things like "dh-make-perl", "debuild", "pbuilder"
    and "lintian". If you've never heard of these things, that's ok. Until
    this week, neither did I. They all do a lot of work, and they aren't
    that hard to use, but the learning curve is quite high. As soon as
    Debian::Perl is stable and shipping all my CPAN modules to Debian, I
    plan to forget about them as quickly as possible. :)

USAGE
    There are two ways to use this module. There is a command line tool
    called "debian-perl" that you can use to prepare, build, test and
    release Debian packages from your Perl module. There is also a
    Module::Install plugin that allows you to issue "make debian" commands.

    To get your module to the goal, of Debian happiness, you will often need
    to supply extra

  Environment
    Using these commands assumes that you are cd'd into the source directory
    of your module. It also assumes that you use a Makefile.PL
    (ExtUtils::MakeMaker, Module::Install or "Module::Package), a
    Module::Build, or a Dist::Zilla based layout."

    When you use the Debian::Perl tool to build and test a Debian package
    from your code, everything will happen under your current directory,
    including the location of final .deb file.

    NOTE: Debian::Perl isn't very useful for applying to other people's
    modules from CPAN, because you won't have the original sources that
    these were created from. Users of Debian::Perl often need to maintain a
    number of Debian hints, and these files don't get packaged into the CPAN
    distribution packages.

  "debian-perl" usage
    This is the primary command line tool provided by Debian::Perl. Try:

        debian-perl help
        debian-perl config
        debian-perl build
        debian-perl test
        debian-perl clean

    Also see debian-perl.

  "Makefile" usage
    If you use Module::Install in your Makefile.PL, you can just add a
    single line, like this:

        use inc::Module::Install;
        ...
        debian_perl;
        ...
        WriteAll;

    Then you will have access to Makefile targets like:

        make debian-config
        make debian-build
        make debian-test
        make debian-upload

    and

        make clean

    will remove any debian build mess.

    See Module::Install::Debian::Perl for more info.

  Debian::Perl Configuration
    This module looks for author specified conguration hints in a few
    places. First it looks for a a directory called "./debian/" or
    "./package/debian/".

    Under this directory, it looks for a file called "conf.yaml". This file
    is used for top level configuration instructions. See
    Debian::Perl::Config.

    You can create a new "./debian/conf.yaml" config file with this command:

        debian-perl config

PROCESSING
    This section describes exactly what happens when you issue "debian-perl"
    commands. It is useful for people who want to understand exactly what
    "debian-perl" is doing without reading its source code.

IN PROGRESS
    More doc coming soon...

STATUS
    This module is brand new and in heavy development. Nothing to see here.
    Move along.

KUDOS
    Many thanks to the great folks at Strategic Data for supporting the
    creation of this module.

    Extra special thanks to Andrew Pam, the resident Debian guru at
    Strategic Data, for providing all the right pointers.

    Also a nod to Jeremiah Foster whose article in The Perl Review from the
    Spring 2009 issue, not only pointed me in the right directions, but also
    convinced me that the process was still not quite consumable by the
    masses.

    Finally, a big shout out to the Debian Perl team
    (irc.oftc.org#debian-perl and debian-perl@lists.debian.org) who are the
    masters of Perl maintenance for Debian. In working with them, I have
    become one of them.

SEE ALSO
    *   DhMakePerl

    *   Module::Install::Debian::Perl

AUTHOR
    Ingy döt Net <ingy@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
    Copyright (c) 2011. Ingy döt Net.

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself.

    See http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html

POD ERRORS
    Hey! The above document had some coding errors, which are explained
    below:

    Around line 68:
        Unterminated L<...> sequence

